and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business growth show i'm your host
sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and if you haven't done so yet check out
our weekly email where i'm sharing
actionable website marketing tips useful
podcasts free resources and much much
more each and every monday tick off your
week with bank why not give it a try
over at business growth dot email
so joining me today i've got jillian
goldberg jillian's the vp of marketing
and investor relations over at
gardnock's cyber technologies julian
welcome to the show how you doing
great thanks for having me today
you are very very welcome i am quite
excited for this topic this is a fresh
one for the show
we're gonna be chatting all things how
we can how you can learn to market to an
industry that's got a more
traditionalized let's say older school
audience
so it's it's a new one for us um so
let's jump straight in julian i wanna
know how how does traditional industry
marketing compare when it comes to what
i guess i'd call more modern marketing
where it's digital led maybe you're
marketing to people on linkedin or on
facebook that are more tech based maybe
software as a service based ordinance
audiences what what's the differences
yeah so guard knox we're an automotive
company we you know we're automotive
tech which is nice and sexy but at the
end of the day uh work you know if
you're looking at all the traditional
sas companies the traditional tech
companies not exactly the same
so
what we're really looking at is the
biggest thing is understanding who our
target demographic is and who our
audience is so traditionally in the
automotive industry um you can kind of
stereotype uh who the buyers are
traditionally um they happen to be
means more heavily
on the male side middle aged a little
bit more
reserved very used to very traditional
they work at these massive conglomerates
all of our automotive companies uh and
suppliers are very very large companies
they've been around for
you know over 100 years and their
current relationships with their
suppliers have been in place for almost
as long as they've been in existence so
truly understanding our buyer and their
pain points is really really important
right um
you know i i look at all these other
companies and their marketing strategies
and they get to be
i haven't found a better word term for
this yet uh i always call it like the
sexy marketing i i i'm sure
i'm sure there's a better term for it um
but that's kind of you know it's you can
do kind of really push the envelope and
and do these fun things and at the end
of the day um
i have to take a step back and say all
this is fun and this is cool
does it work
and especially this happens to me all
the time people will look at our website
and say it's a nice website but
it's not it's not showing like the
cutting edge of everything and i said
yeah but it converts
i took my audience and my audience this
is it works for my audience so
if it's working why fix it and yes i
want it to be cool and i want to push
the envelope but
if it doesn't if it's not bringing you
anything you know
we don't do things in marketing just
because it's cool we have kpis at the
end of the day and
if we find a way to let us meet those
kpis like that's what matters so it
needs to truly be customer led
yeah great great great start that's so
that's a massive issue websites i find
as well in in our industry because i'm
selling websites and seo with our
company all the time and like you say so
many people just
i don't know if it's ego driven or
driven from the c-suite or pressure from
leadership but people want their
websites to look awesome like you said
they want them to look sexy they want
them to look attractive but then at the
end of the day they say if it's
converting the idle client that you
actually want to come to you that you
want to have conversations with your
sales team
don't do not redesign it if it's working
well
then do not listen to them or if it
isn't then yeah that's a different story
but yeah it's a it's a funny one
i mean it's really funny typically you
hear this from like investors a lot
because investors have come from a very
different angle and i i love you know
it's so good but you need to take that
with a grain of salt i also found that
when i went to flashy with certain
marketing techniques it actually had the
exact opposite of my intention which
actually alienated my customers even
more um
or it wasn't showing up because
typically these big companies have you
know their firewalls are so
you know intense it was blocking
everything so any newsletter that i sent
out was getting blocked so it's like
okay
uh you know what are we actually working
with here how do you how do we like
let's know your target market 100 and
build your marketing around it
and not the other way around
yeah yeah so with that said you
mentioned understanding your audience so
we have talked about this a bit on this
show but when you've got a more
traditional audience is it more
difficult because when we've talked
about kind of marketing to an audience
that's typically hanging out on social
or they're using digital a lot then
we've talked about things like listening
to sales calls with software we've
talked about kind of running surveys on
your website using tools like heat maps
hot jar and all that good stuff is this
possible is it completely different when
it comes to understanding your audience
from your perspective when it comes to
traditional
it's very different i can tell you like
the majority of our audience doesn't
necessarily have a digital footprint
they're not necessarily on linkedin and
if they're on linkedin they're not on
linkedin in a major capacity
uh they definitely aren't on facebook
they're not really on twitter
uh
that's not really where we're you know
linkedin we definitely use but
it's very different marketing tactics
it's a lot of
white papers i found very um technical
webinars have been amazing for us and
then reusing that information
uh plugging into different
not databases but like
i know i i do a lot of research you know
i have a very finite number of customers
so i know you know there's only x amount
of automotive manufacturers x amount of
automotive suppliers that are relevant
for us
so i map them very very well and i truly
meet them on their level so it's like
abm
to the max i would say and it's a very
different way
of approaching clients i don't get you
know the linkedin ads even we did all
this a b testing i'm like oh this ad
looks awesome it's going to convert
nothing like the most boring ad i mean
literally it's like
white background even times new roman
like that converted better i mean it's
wild
um
but but at the end of the day i have to
kind of let the ego go a little bit and
say okay but this is how this is how we
are going to
to move the needle um i think it's a
very different type of marketing our
marketing budget like we look we don't
even do a lot of shows uh we do the big
shows two to three shows a year maybe
and we put a lot a lot into that i think
when you look at a traditional market
face to face means a lot more so even
more than shows i say customer days
so where we'll go to a potential client
or client's client and we set up a very
intimate demo workshop uh super created
to what i already have addressed and
know what their current needs are
um it's that face-to-face you know we
on some level we can do business through
zoom um and the pandemic definitely
taught us that but now that we're
traveling again it's like wow the needle
just moves so much quicker
um so we'll do personal demo videos and
not the demo videos you see in sas
companies but really like we have our
our lab our automotive lab and i'll put
we'll put engineers in there uh
different
you know angles different things that
they're looking at and really do a
customized demo
um and i'll even you know
we don't love to do live demos but
obviously we'll do a live demo if that's
what's needed it needs to look as real
as possible and as heated as possible i
think that's the biggest thing
um for us
got it so you mentioned a few things
there
but
what aside from
kind of these demos perhaps pre-recorded
and things like that what else and you
mentioned you touched on linkedin ads
and perhaps doing a an ad that you never
thought was going to convert that was
perhaps the most basic ever but did
aside from those things how how have you
found or what channels have you found
actually do work on digital is there
like
is there many or is it is it mainly kind
of traditional face-to-face shows in
person events
yeah so we do linkedin
google ads actually is
amazing
for us
uh even like even though we don't go to
shows and things like that maybe i'll
really try and target even youtube ads
around specific automotive shows
uh where i know that
my target audience is going to be
um but we also do a lot of white papers
a lot of contributed articles for our
target audience so like
you know more of the trade publications
that they actually are in i'll do
uh contributed articles thought
leadership pieces a lot
um which is very important because
automotive still like uses print media a
little bit uh still which is kind of
surprising um now we i don't do ad space
i don't really that's not i don't really
believe in that i do more of the
contributed articles and webinars paid
webinars i'm telling you like this is
something that i so believe in
um you bring in all the right people and
then not only that it's not about all
your live attendees but it's what you do
with the content afterwards and i can
say from our site like i still get
downloads on a daily basis for webinars
i did three years ago
got it
slicing and dicing those and repurposing
the content
of course i think you know
we do need to meet our people on their
level
and what they're comfortable with um and
even though we're in a high-tech sphere
um sometimes we like to operate with a
low-tech mindset
um i know i do it's like sometimes you
know you get all these complicated
things to see a demo on a site and
everything gets so automated that i'm
like i just want to talk to a person
and i think at the end of the day like
it is the relationship so
you know i mentioned abm and i know
you've talked about this on your show
but account based marketing
when they come in i know exactly what
you know this company's needs are as it
relates to me and what the language they
use so i release a white paper
um the next generation of electronic
architecture in automotive we call zonal
architecture but a lot of companies have
their own name for it
so i'm going to use their name i'm going
to use their
vocabulary it's not that hard to
actually take a white paper and modify
it so everyone from this specific
automotive manufacturer when they
download or see this piece of content it
speaks their language
and that is a huge huge
conversion i mean for us they if it's
not the way that they think about it or
internalize it they're just not gonna
they're not gonna look at it the same
yeah yeah yeah yeah okay you mentioned
something interesting just now you said
paid webinars what does that mean
so there's uh a lot of companies
that you essentially pay to do a webinar
with it's like co-sponsored um by
themselves so you bring like an analyst
they give you an analyst um they do most
of the marketing so i found one now
which
you know they do a great job i kind of
explained to them who my target market
is and i only pay them if they meet they
get me x amount of
uh attendees which meet my target market
and i actually approve or disprove these
attendees
um i don't recommend doing webinars
in a silo just kind of by yourself um
it's a lot a lot of extra work and
resources that you probably don't have
and like if i had access to these people
i wouldn't be doing this webinar
so like let's let's open up and actually
you know i go to the trade so i go to
like an automotive
specific webinar company not just a
general one and we get exactly what we
need um it's
that is the biggest the biggest part
okay so finding a company that's doing
webinars with a specific audience
relevant to your industry and then like
co-sponsoring the show
and getting yeah exactly
understood that makes sense right like
if you don't have to find the list
yourself um
okay and
i was going to ask something actually
you
white papers
how do you make those work because you
mentioned the digital footprint of your
target audience isn't that great how are
you distributing them in front of kind
of old-school traditional prospects yeah
i mean listen we definitely do the
traditional stuff not traditional but
the you know this new age of digital
marketing we do the the linkedin i do my
newsletters and and all of that uh but i
also
we
even email signatures like work because
we're emailing these people back and
forth i have a few investors who are
very very plugged into the community and
i
send everything to them in a very
specific way that they can distribute to
their
uh networks
um i also do it in a way where it's easy
to like once it gets in an organization
it's easy to disseminate across the
organization
uh as well now gdpr makes things really
difficult in terms of emails so i am big
into as i mentioned business is done
through people so we'll kind of take
even in our database these are our
specifics targets like these are you
know our target accounts
and we will send a very personalized
note to them
and sometimes even in snail mail
yeah yeah
like i think you know don't
uh overlook snail mail you know it used
to be when you got an email it was
exciting and you got mail all the time
and now it's kind of the opposite and
when people like
i work for an israeli company i'm
american i think my accent gives me away
so much but um
a handwritten note
a handwritten note and to have a nice
printed copy and send it directly to who
you know your person your target person
is whether or not they open it or
actually read it it's going to sit on
their desk and people are going to see
it
oh yeah i can't i can't tell you the
last time that we got something like
like you say it's so rare
that you actually get handwritten
whether it's a note whether it's a gift
or something like that it just it
definitely breaks through the noise for
sure it's um
yeah they think about it you they'll
look at you and i'm like everyone my
team laughs at me all the time i'm like
big on qr codes so like i send it and
there's qr codes on everything so like
let's get you on digital but if you're
gonna be more comfortable like i noticed
this i was in one of our board meetings
and we have some amazing people on the
board and they all just had everything
printed out i mean even like you know
when i send stuff for board meetings i
even send certain white papers and
different things and they had it printed
out and they were taking notes
and i was like okay so this is my target
demographic
so you know another thing i'll do is
i'll send it to them or i'll send it to
them digitally and be like hey like i
really value our relationship would you
just give me a few thoughts on what you
think about this
so
people are much more likely to to feel
like an expert and to give you their
thoughts
and
um
they like to actually like share it if i
implement some of their ideas they like
to share it with their team so i just
made it you know given myself a coach or
a cheerleader at these accounts
so
you know it is a little bit more time
consuming but
it's also great market research i mean
when you're in a traditional industry
meet them on their playing field i i
just can't say that enough
but know what their playing field is so
you know humble yourself we don't know
everything and just listen you know i
still have to tell that to myself all
the time
uh to humble myself because it's it's
hard on the ego
oh it is it is for sure that's that's
sound advice um and i think especially
when you're working on kind of larger
account values
not something that we don't do enough
really something we need to do a bit
more of is um yeah kind of looking to
to send those personalized letters gifts
and so on because not many companies are
doing it um i know there's agencies that
specialize specifically in that um but
it is one nice way to break the mold
when you have got that extra time to
spend on account so
jillian if you're up for it i want to
throw you in a hot seat and give you a
scenario and see what your take is
if you're in the game
cool so let's pretend
you're a marketer that's just been
brought into a traditional company
let's say in this industry we'll go
agricultural software i think that's a
traditional industry um someone in the
audience might sound completely wrong
but i'm pretty sure it is and let's say
they've been going they've been going a
long time let's begin i don't know 20 30
years but you've been on board as on
board as might be one of their first can
i say let's say more modern marketers um
and you've got a
you've been given some growth targets
let's say you need to to steadily ramp
up monthly recurring revenue for their
software product it doesn't necessarily
matter what the software is maybe it's
crm or accountancy whatever um but what
are some of the first if that was your
if that was yourself what was some of
the first things that you'd bring into
play if up to now they'd only be doing
things like i don't know face-to-face um
in-person events and trade shows and
that was there 90 percent that in
referrals was kind of 95 percent of hell
there and existing clients was how their
bread and butter of their revenue was
coming in what are some of the first
things you'd want to put into play
yeah i mean the first thing i think
would be to truly understand the target
market and
who who is the decision maker and where
they are
i think you know there's so many times
especially in large organizations we
don't know who the decision maker
actually is
but we might not touch the decision
maker till the very end
i think it's so important in traditional
industries to kind of get your hands
dirty so before you implement anything
to spend time with the customer as much
as you can
so
to go to their offices to ask for a
coffee
to understand where they spend their
time uh so are they on linkedin are they
you know we found uh a lot of our
contacts in germany used sing which is
like their version of linkedin so we had
to open oh yeah yeah yeah yeah
um and understanding like all of that
sort of stuff so number one
get your hands dirty if you're in the
agricultural space like
i know it sounds crazy
but i would go spend my time in a field
working i want to know what are their
pain points where are they spending the
most a most of their time right um
b like do you really get their pain
points because they might not even
understand their pain points if your
product is going to come
fill a need
that they don't realize exists or how
else they fill that need it is just so
important um
because i we actually did this i we work
a lot in the defense industry as well
and so i realized like they they're not
on linkedin they're just not on linkedin
um
but we actually did a billboard i was
shocked that we did a billboard and it
converted
well
okay and
you know like i would think in a like in
an agricultural
field like talk to other marketers in
the field i'm a part of a huge group of
automotive marketers and we bounce ideas
off of each other all the time like have
you tried this did it work why didn't it
work you know we're not necessarily
competitors uh but we work in the same
that same industry so i've even like
you know shared uh negotiated booth
space with other companies uh for
different things or like i made a huge
hotel block for a big show and i said
okay you guys get half of this block if
you guys take care of whatever i mean
i just think making your
the people around you your best friends
so before you spend money or even make a
plan
do your research
i think we so quickly gets we like jump
in the deep end so quickly and we like
we have all these amazing ideas but we
don't get it first
and especially especially with
traditional industry if you come in and
you
tell them
what's going on in their industry and
how to do their job better you
they're not going to listen to you they
just won't it's it's different than uh
different you know these more
high-tech esque industries
i it's very important that you level set
that so
how often have you seen it where a
company or where you go into company and
you really think that a channel is going
to work and then it absolutely flops
like you think for example i don't know
linkedin ads or google ads or something
like that you think it's actually going
to kill it and then it's terrible
it happens to me like on a daily basis
like i think it's like funny that we
think that like you know after a year or
whatever we have the answers and like
the more i work in it the more i realize
i know nothing
i mean you know it's like i'm a big game
of thrones fan so you know nothing jon
snow like that plays in the back of my
head all day long we know nothing um
it's kind of like you gotta
you know
what is it you're gonna pick you're
gonna miss 100 of the shots you don't
take so we got to take the shot we got
to figure it out uh it works things work
one month and it doesn't work the next
so just because you know linkedin ads
didn't work for this let's try it again
but at the end of the day i still have
my bucket of stuff that i've seen in the
past that works
and like if i have a piece of content
that converts on linkedin
i'm gonna refresh it and rebrand it and
wrap it differently and i'm gonna put it
out there
again
but i think if
we have a playbook but that doesn't mean
that the coach isn't
writing new plays or modifying our plays
as our competition gets smarter
uh that was very much an american
football reference i'm a big american
football fan but unfortunately i'm sorry
yeah yeah i know the reference is
totally lost but uh we can talk about
what you guys call footballs or soccer
uh we still we we have playbooks we do
scouting reports we have a game plan and
sometimes that game plan doesn't matter
how good it is it doesn't work because
of something yeah oh yeah like you said
it happens to us quite quite often we
often test new marketing channels and
some of them flop some of them do well
um
i like like that reference to jon snow i
actually want to use it on a meme on
linkedin now so uh
might do one late anyway i digress so
let's say we've we've done some research
we've talked to our customers where
they're at whether that's on their farms
whether that's somewhere else depending
on agriculture maybe you've gone to
agricultural trade show maybe you've
booked in some dinners with your
agricultural prospects whatever wherever
there they are how do we convert
the answers that they're giving us
around
kind of what they're doing right now
where they're using to get their
information the problems they face their
main goals their main ambitions how do
we convert those nuggets of information
into
marketing i guess
into marketing i mean i think
you know you you need to understand the
medium and you really need to work on
the story
what is the story so you know like we
always like this really nice and linear
the problem the solution like
type of stuff
i
think it's really important to show the
before and the after
of
show me what i'm currently experiencing
and i want to see it side by side with
what i can have with you because if you
only show your product and you don't
show it next to what i currently have
i don't get your product especially in a
traditional industry so if you're trying
to implement uh this happens all the
time people try and implement new
software and new strategies and
organizations this happened internally
guard knox a lot of us come from the
defense
um space
right and military backgrounds and we
were trying to implement a new software
for project management okay and everyone
was like absolutely not the resistance
was
through the roof uh because it wasn't
presented well it wasn't a bad product
it was just not presented well i think
the biggest thing with traditional
industries is they're going but i've
been doing this for decades and it works
why do i need to move
and if you don't show them yes the the
onboarding why is onboarding the biggest
issue um how is it going to change your
day-to-day if i don't see those numbers
it's not going to work
and i think the biggest from a a
marketing point of view it doesn't
matter what medium you tell the story as
long as the story is
you know is gonna work is gonna be a big
enough pain point because i can say wow
that's an awesome product but it's just
not a big enough pain point for me to
throw in my basic excel
and
uh to move on to this new software
um
from my experience hands-on from
selling to prospects one of the biggest
reasons deals don't close is because
people stick to the status quo
exactly
not not necessarily just the prospects
you're dealing with but maybe the
c-suite leadership they're too embedded
in what's going on now they might be
spending thousands more than your
solution um but they're so stuck in
their ways with the current offer they
think it's so painful to take the time
to shift to your offer they'd rather
stick with whatever they're doing right
now um
so if you're near the unknown a thousand
percent it's that like you're so that is
your biggest competitor is the status
quo
and if you don't understand the status
it doesn't matter how good your product
is if you don't get what the status quo
actually is
yeah yeah yeah any any examples of
how people can break through that i mean
you mentioned showing kind of sharing
stories before and after and things like
that any examples of what's worked for
you or
so here's a kind of a risky one but if
you believe in your product enough you
say okay
i'm gonna show you
zero cost here
what it can be
and you do a basic limited integration
and once they see that
if you believe in your product enough
that's where the money can come
it's like everyone who does those you
know free trials of things
it's the same exact thing if you believe
in your product enough
you do that
and that's going to show them
oh
it also you need to give you're going to
have a coach there so they need to
convince the c-suite
which is half the battle
that this is worth it they you need to
arm them with the material i mean i
can't tell you how many times i prepare
the powerpoints that my customer is
going to give internally
don't make them do extra work to sell
your product internally you sell it
internally whether or not you are
giving the presentation or not and i do
that a lot i put together
so you know all of their internal stuff
that they're telling i even give them
talking notes because they want my
product because they know how it's going
to make their day-to-day easier but now
they need to convince the person who can
actually write the check
yeah yeah getting buying
how does
how do you find it works what are some
effective methods when
you're at
trade shows dinners
whatever kind of face-to-face um
stands whatever they may be
of more traditional industries what are
some effective ways to actually get
prospects interested and then start
speaking to your sales team
so
demos you gotta invest in cool demos and
when i say cool demos it's not
screens with cool dashboards and things
like that we actually just built an
augmented reality demo
um so you know it was see the future
with the future
and you really took a step in
and you could see
what you have now and it kind of like
undressed the car in a way and you saw
the hardware and you saw the software
and you can actually
um
see what the future will look like with
our technology so much so much when
you're when you're marketing really deep
tech it's really really hard to show a
condensing demo so i leaned into
different next generation technology to
do that now i have a super technical
demo that we can sit on the side and
have those technical conversations but
most people you see at shows are not
those people
they're more of the business side of
things that are then going to say to
their technical teams oh my god you have
got to talk to this company
um also they think it's really cool and
they ask to take pictures send it to
their kids
things like that
i think the demo is
is the biggest part of it we do a lot of
reach out before
um
you know there's different things people
like to do i can tell you so ces which
is the consumer electronics show is the
biggest show for us
uh and people you can just drown in
costs to have a booth
i i don't do that i actually uh do a
private suite so i take out all the
furniture in this suite we bring in all
the demos so i have a demo area and then
i have my private rooms and the
marketing team goes crazy setting up
meetings beforehand
we do open houses so i have like
business cards which are essentially an
invitation to an open house that i give
everyone whenever someone comes in i
hand them a stack of 10. it doesn't
matter who they are they might give it
to someone else
and i found
um i i mean it's just converted for us
so well like it's not just about being
at shows but it's about how to maximize
also like
how much you're spending i don't want
any random person coming in here um it
also gives this illusion of exclusivity
to people which they really like and
when you're at a really big show it lets
people breathe you know they come they
can sit down they have a coffee they
have food
i even you know i'm saying you can if
you need an extra 15 minutes take it
stay here and then we have people there
that just talk to them they do the small
talk and they build the relationship
it's not this like fast pace move move
move move a thousand distractions and so
when i find i bring them there
people just want to like it's like that
over you know they have too much sensory
stuff going on
yeah yeah yeah have you seen any um
i like the idea of showing prospects the
future and showing them what can happen
like what superpower they can gain by
using your solution um
have you seen any examples
of let's say any more cost effective or
less budget based ideas of how people
have done that or have you got any ideas
for our audience
yeah i mean
so that's a great point obviously demos
are really expensive uh we actually put
the demo into a video too that we sent
around you can do basic videos all the
time quick and dirty i find that some
people like like the less cinematic it
looks the more compelling and the more
real it looks
so
i think also leaning into your brand and
your culture and and all that stuff it
like you can take videos in in your lab
it doesn't need to be super
crazy and compelling if you can add some
some humor to that also you know videos
uh product videos are not necessarily
super expensive and
it's the gift that keeps on giving so
you need to decide
you know at some point you do need to
spend money and you need to spend money
in the right way that can
give you more things from it so you
spend a lot of money on your demo and
you get a good video and you can do a
lot of stuff with it
you know their
budget is is none of our good friends i
can say like i know that we have ces
coming up so i'm going okay
i'm not really looking to convert right
now and you know my kpis changed on my
monthly conversions because we're
putting everything towards ces so i'm
i'm going to scale down my marketing
while we prepare for all of this stuff
for the next few months so i you know
like just because you built a budget at
the beginning of the year for your
monthly spend doesn't mean it can't
change
it doesn't mean it can't be reallocated
there's so many ways to build demos to
build you know
amazing marketing materials on nothing
fiverr is amazing you can not believe
what what we spend on fiverr and what
we're able to do
yeah no i agree sometimes being a really
tight spot
as a marketer as even a business owner
and they say necessity as a mother of
all invention or something like that but
when you're in those tight spots that's
when you get scrappiest i find i've
found when i've been in startups and
things like that so that's yeah i like i
like those points now
i think i interrupted you a bit and just
jumped into some of my own perceptions
of traditional marketing because you
talked about doing research
understanding where your customers are
their pain points whether getting their
information where they're going to to
rely on trusted sources is there
anything we've missed when it comes to
kind of using that information than
actually going to market
oh i mean i think the biggest thing is
the the feedback loop
i you know obviously marketing and bd
and sales are so tightly connected
i make sure that all of our bd guys are
actually reporting back to the marketing
team their findings
i also think
that
on some level our r and d
are our solar our target customers like
they are the exact same personality and
so much we kind of separate that like
i'm going okay like
this the guy at my company who would be
my customer
uh if they were at the customer like let
me talk to them let me understand how
they think let me use them when i'm
saying will this campaign work will that
campaign work like use those people
because i found so many people at our
company like they think exactly like my
target customer and it's so not the way
i think
okay you're talking about like the
directors the owners of the company
i'm talking about the engineers ah right
okay yep yeah the engineers it's so
important i mean a lot of the engineers
you know the directors and the owners
are definitely you know more
the decision maker or whatever but who
who's gonna who am i gonna grab the
attention of first it's the engineers
who are going to be working with my
product anyways
so as we're building it
like
they need to be in that conversation
as i'm saying is this compelling to you
do you care
do you know this is this obvious
how should i present this information
especially from a graphic perspective
yeah i mean yeah
yeah i've not heard that before that's
that's that's different we've already
talked about engineers and getting
feedback from them but that's quite
quite an important thing i guess
yeah i mean like for us there are target
customers and
engineers think in very black and white
and when you
throw them all the shades of gray
because that's how us marketers kind of
like things
they just don't know how to digest it
okay
all right so you've given some nice
ideas of
how to work out where your customers at
what's important to them then actually
ideas to put that marketing into play
we've talked about a few different
channels
how can you tell if your marketing let's
bring it back to the agricultural
scenario where you've been thrown in as
a market in there how can we tell if our
marketing is actually working because
it sounds like traditional marketing is
a hell of a lot different so more
difficult to measure obviously with
digital with ads
with your website there's a lot of
things you can track i mean b2b
attribution is far from perfect but
there's a lot of things you can track
with another and then analytical tools
um and all that good stuff but how can
we track our traditional marketing
efforts and what should we be focusing
on
yeah i mean that's a great point how do
you like tracking the traditional
marketing efforts obviously it's very
hard to build kpis
as a marketer in general we say that uh
but also i think it's important
and it's hard to actually measure but
it's every time that you're in a meeting
and someone says you know it's a newer
account but they know about you
and they know who you are and what you
bring to the table that is a win for me
like every time i kind of do a check
that's one of our kpis it's really hard
to look at but if you
get in a conversation with someone that
you came not through marketing but it
came to you from somewhere else but they
they know of gardnock's they know of our
solutions they
that's a win that's something that we
can actually track um when we get a
meeting at a trade show and they're
familiar with us or they know about us
or they're using our terminology for
things
we're doing our job
but it is harder and i think that's one
of the things like when i keep saying
lose the ego
yeah you also need to have managers who
understand that
yeah
how um
because i don't know this is more from
my own ignorance but i know that for
example
in a lot of tech companies a lot of b2b
companies in general that aren't
traditional they're going to be met
marketers are going to be measured
against kind of leads they generate
whether that's marketing qualified mqls
or sales qualified leads
is it the same in traditional kind of
marketing or is it more
you just measure on revenue and as long
as that's going up it's fine or are
there other metrics that you tend to be
tracked against from your experience
it's a little bit of everything we track
everything at the end of the day you
should track everything
um
but yeah we do we are measured on
bringing in the mqls and the sqls
obviously
but the biggest thing we're measured on
is
how many
of our deals can you trace back to
marketing
right
and so every deal we have we
you know retroactively
find the blueprint and where they came
in and what touch points they have
and
so it is tied to revenue and we can
actually prove on every single one of
our deals
how it has come through or touched
marketing
uh even if it wasn't you know a digital
lead that came in
yeah yeah yeah is that more from your
sales team kind of understanding whether
original source was or
yeah i mean that's from us understanding
where the original source was but for us
you know if it's not just one person
it's typically a team of decision makers
so we kind of we
have our own formula of reporting
of that so we actually do a whole report
essentially on
where marketing
the marketing department has touched
this account
uh as well so you know even if it came
in whole you know a thousand percent
through sales
but were the ones who built the
the deck for them to sell
guard knocks internally and we helped
them present it to their management
then that's still a win for marketing
because even though it's not a
traditional
you know linkedin ad it's still a
marketing effort gotcha gotcha makes
sense
makes sense last one jillian so this
this is this is a a tricky one for any
marked uh let alone if you're operating
in a traditional industry but
how are some ways that you found to get
c-suite buy-in
if you're looking to splash out on a new
marketing
trade show or do something different or
maybe it's something that you've never
done before as a company but you
strongly believe from your customer
research that it's going to work because
they've all told you that they're going
there maybe it's a new publication maybe
it's a niche podcast maybe it's
something else
how do we get c-suite buying when we're
almost 99 sure it's going to be a hit
i mean that's a great question i
i i don't have one answer because i get
c wheat buy in 5 000 different ways
i think the biggest thing is don't over
complicate it typically when we have
we've been spending all this time on
things and we have this amazing idea and
we come in and it's like this big
presentation about what we want to do
you need to get to the bottom line uh
you know the kiss keep it simple stupid
you've got to keep it as simple as
possible this is the money we need to
spend these are our goals and i know we
can do it
um i think
that is the biggest thing
i need to know that i have every answer
i'm gonna present this in two minutes
but every question i'm gonna get asked i
have every answer for
and that is the biggest thing it's over
preparation but also
don't over complicate it i think because
we know it so well
you know they don't my ceo doesn't need
to know what seo is right like as a
marketer it's like
it's a duh of course but he doesn't need
to know what that is
so keep it super high level and speak to
them on their language in their language
got it yeah i like i like preparing the
i like the idea of preparing all the
other questions that they might ask
and
yeah getting getting those ready because
i mean from my experience anyway a lot
of c-suites just want to talk in numbers
understand a rough idea of what return
as long as it makes business sense
then
they'll they'll usually get in depending
on
what the proposition is
and if it's a new budget line i'm
telling them where i'm cutting their ass
to the budget where the money's coming
from
yeah there's that that's the other half
of it as well what's getting pulled out
exactly exactly for sure cool jillian
look really appreciate you coming on the
show thanks for sharing insights and all
things how to market a traditional
industry so really uh appreciate the
value shared with myself and the
audience today so with that said please
do tell us more about how everyone
tuning in can learn from you connect
with you and anything you want to
promote
yeah of course well please check out
gardnox www.gardnox.com
that's guard knox
and you're welcome to also follow me i'm
a contributing writer for entrepreneur
as well where i talk about all of my
marketing tips
as well so please reach out to me
linkedin is my second home so looking
forward to hearing from everyone
awesome and we'll put all of those links
over in the show notes at
businessgrowth.marketing
and with that thanks once again julian
really enjoyed the convo
thank you
good stuff and as always if you enjoyed
today's episode a quick rating on your
podcast channel or subscribe on your
youtube as much appreciate it and we
should catch you on the next episode for
more nov8 no bs actionable marketing
tips to grow your business and grow your
revenue cheers for tuning in